<div id="table-of-contents">
<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
<div id="text-table-of-contents">
<ul>
<li><a href="#org5b424d1">1. Facilitation:</a></li>
<li><a href="#org6a20219">2. In Attendance:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#org817122c">2.1. Present:</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#org9617b50">3. Summary:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#org9715449">3.1. Decisions Made:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#org3a0718b">3.1.1. Scheduling a Cohousing Consultant:</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#org33b882f">3.2. Actions Taken:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#org612e290">3.2.1. Brainstormed How to Help Sellers:</a></li>
<li><a href="#org02ce7db">3.2.2. Discussed Proposed Member Reiumbursement Policy:</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#org7d16cff">3.3. Actions to be Taken:</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#orgc02bc3e">4. Course of the Meeting:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#org73d991b">4.1. Opening:</a></li>
<li><a href="#org2e32464">4.2. Setting the Agenda:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#org2f1ac95">4.2.1. Decide (Process/Erin) Cohousing Workshop: [17]</a></li>
<li><a href="#orgb485944">4.2.2. Brainstorm (Member/ Erin) How can we support members in selling their units? [5]</a></li>
<li><a href="#org00a2cc6">4.2.3. Discuss (Finance &amp; Legal/ Sharon) Proposed member reimbursement policy. [12]</a></li>
<li><a href="#orgec2dbb2">4.2.4. Info (Dot) Question about Parkside.</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#org2e17d06">4.3. Cohousing Consultant:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#org7b0d4e5">4.3.1. Final discussion:</a></li>
<li><a href="#orgccbea55">4.3.2. Vote:</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#org4b4c23f">4.4. Reimbursement Policy:</a></li>
<li><a href="#orgeb501aa">4.5. Selling Units:</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#orgd1cce50">5. Misc Announcements:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#orgcd8b24c">5.1. Logan broke his leg:</a></li>
<li><a href="#orgb00f49e">5.2. Parkside:</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#orgc840b9c">6. Next Meeting:</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
Germantown Commons Community Meeting in the Dining Room of the Common House at 5:00pm on Sunday, 2016-11-13.


<a id="org5b424d1"></a>

# Facilitation:

Rod K facilitated. Erin R managed the agenda. Barbara S managed the stack. John W took notes.


<a id="org6a20219"></a>

# In Attendance:


<a id="org817122c"></a>

## Present:

Drew K, Barbara S, Diana S, Bob T, Sharon S, Dot D, Suzanne G, Vicki M, Doug L, Susan J, Rod K, Michele B, Essie S, Mandy H, Mary H, Sue F, Nancy C, Sharon S, Erin R, Sarah C, John W

21 people representing 
17 households

Announced Proxies: Rod K for Rita B


<a id="org9617b50"></a>

# Summary:


<a id="org9715449"></a>

## Decisions Made:


<a id="org3a0718b"></a>

### Scheduling a Cohousing Consultant:

The Process Committee is to move ahead on scheduling a consultant.


<a id="org33b882f"></a>

## Actions Taken:


<a id="org612e290"></a>

### Brainstormed How to Help Sellers:


<a id="org02ce7db"></a>

### Discussed Proposed Member Reiumbursement Policy:


<a id="org7d16cff"></a>

## Actions to be Taken:

[none]


<a id="orgc02bc3e"></a>

# Course of the Meeting:


<a id="org73d991b"></a>

## Opening:

We began with a moment of silence.


<a id="org2e32464"></a>

## Setting the Agenda:

Straw poll totals can be found to the right of each item in square brackets.


<a id="org2f1ac95"></a>

### Decide (Process/Erin) Cohousing Workshop: [17]

The process committee proposes inviting Diana Leafe Christian as a cohousing consultant for the evening of 12/9 through the afternoon of 12/11 to advise the community on consensus decision-making in cohousing and communication practices that facilitate this decision-making.


<a id="orgb485944"></a>

### Brainstorm (Member/ Erin) How can we support members in selling their units? [5]

How can our community  support members in their efforts to rent/sell and in turn support the health of our community?


<a id="org00a2cc6"></a>

### Discuss (Finance & Legal/ Sharon) Proposed member reimbursement policy. [12]

Proposed Policy for GC Member Reimbursements. The (draft) Policy is posted here:  <https://basecamp.com/2469935/projects/12402437/messages/63216053#events_mes>â€¦


<a id="orgec2dbb2"></a>

### Info (Dot) Question about Parkside.

Drew said he recently attended a meeting with Parkside and that he could provide an update. He suggested that people who have questions about Parkside can stay late and talk with him. Dot withdrew the item from the proposed agend.


<a id="org2e17d06"></a>

## Cohousing Consultant:


<a id="org7b0d4e5"></a>

### Final discussion:

-   Doug asked about sociocracy and consensus models.
-   Mandy noted that she has the guest rooms booked for that weekend.
-   Vicki & Susan said they can offer a room.
-   Drew said he favors the proposal.
-   Nancy clarified that we don't want to be trained in sociocracy at the workshop under discussion since there will not be enough time.
-   Diana called for a vote on the proposal. Someone seconded.


<a id="orgccbea55"></a>

### Vote:

-   Everyone voted green except Doug/Nancy who had a clarification question and then voted green.
-   Someone asked about the cost. Barbara and others on the Process Committee clarified: estimated $1500 for 15 hours of workshop, plus plane fare, supplies, etc. The maximum would be $2500. Someone asked \`\`where are we getting that money?'' It was noted that the Process Committee will collaborate with the Finance & Legal Committee concerning the budget.
-   Bob T asked whether we were discussing or deciding (which had the effect of reminding us that we were *deciding*).
-   Each household present (with 16 households represented) voted green.


<a id="org4b4c23f"></a>

## Reimbursement Policy:

There was some discussion of whether we would be brainstorming or discussing. Drew and Bob asked questions. Rod said the proposal had previously been brainstormed.

Vicki read the proposal (reprinted below) to the group:

**Background**

This policy is being proposed in order that GCT accounting practices will comply with accounting standard practices.

**Community Agreement**

*Reimbursements for 2016 Expenses*

2016 purchases for which members desire reimbursement should be submitted no later than
January 10, 2017.

*Reimbursements for Expenses Starting January 1, 2017*

In order that Committees may be informed of their actual balances, effective January 1, 2017,
receipts for reimbursement should be turned in within 30 days and processed promptly so that
the budget may be kept current. In the event that circumstances prevent a member from meeting
this deadline, s/he may confer with Finance and Legal Committee members, who will
evaluate on a case by case basis.

*Requesting Reimbursement*

To request reimbursement for monies that have been spent on approved HOA expenses,
submit any receipt(s) and all supporting documentation to the designated representative from
the Finance and Legal Committee for processing.
Reimbursement processing will require the signature of the Committee (or Chairperson)
responsible for the Budget item. 

*Reimbursing Travel Expenses*

Travel costs will generally not be reimbursed unless authorized in advance by the committee (or
chairperson) responsible for the expense budget and only for trips in excess of 50 miles round
trip. Mileage will be reimbursed at the IRS rate of $.54 per mile.

There was some discussion of whether the 30-day window begins with receipt of the item.

Bob asked about receipts for a *service* and about a dispute. In particular, he inquired about situations where there is a dispute with a vendor. Sharon said that can be brought to the committee. Vicki also elaborated.

Mary H asked about expenditures that exceed the budget. Vicki & Sharon clarified.

Drew said we should view this as part of the responsibility of F&L to be good stewards.

With no further discussion points, the discussion was declared complete.


<a id="orgeb501aa"></a>

## Selling Units:

-   Erin noted that we want to support sales of units AND build community.
-   Susan said the Cambridge Cohousing Group sets up public meetings about cohousing.
-   Rod suggested that the MMM committee put together a brochure for sellers to give to potential buyers. Susan underscored.
-   Diana reminded us of past history with marketing. She said she has an list of people who have shown interest in cohousing. We want to convey what we *are* so that people who really want cohousing will be drawn here.
-   Dot suggested we circulate information within the community about units that might be coming on the market.
-   Michele said Common Meals are a good entry point. Maybe someone could take responsibility to be an ambassador.
-   Mandy emphasized the importance of trying to attract people who *want* cohousing.
-   Bob said once a unit is out in public (Zillow.com or MLS) it is hard to \`\`pull it back.''
-   Drew reminded us of our core values&#x2014;especially as a *community.* Selling a unit here is different from selling a house in other settings. We can talk explicitly with prospects about cohousing.
-   Erin thanked the gathering for the ideas.
-   Bob noted that for future reference, when brainstorming we should facilitate it *as a brainstorming session* and write the ideas on newsprint, etc.


<a id="orgd1cce50"></a>

# Misc Announcements:


<a id="orgcd8b24c"></a>

## Logan broke his leg:

Suzanne announced that Logan broke his leg playing soccer and is struggling to get up and down the stairs at his unit. She noted that she suggested to him that he could use a guest room in the Common House but he declined.


<a id="orgb00f49e"></a>

## Parkside:

Drew made a brief announcement about where things stand with Parkside, Mitsubishi, etc.


<a id="orgc840b9c"></a>

# Next Meeting:

The next scheduled Community Meeting is Monday, 28 November, at 6:45pm.

Check the Basecamp calendar for Community Meeting proposed agenda and date.

