# Community Business Meeting Minutes
## Germantown Commons 2016-12-12
Author: John Waide
Date: 2016-12-12

<div id="table-of-contents">
<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
<div id="text-table-of-contents">
<ul>
<li><a href="#orgfe81749">1. Facilitation:</a></li>
<li><a href="#org248f7c2">2. In Attendance:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#org44e362d">2.1. Present:</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#org3ce7f90">3. Summary:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#org7d68484">3.1. Decisions Made:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#org14b681b">3.1.1. Patricia Allison workshop on 27&#x2013;29 January:</a></li>
<li><a href="#orgab74bf6">3.1.2. Common House Guest Room Policy:</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#org9c64146">3.2. Actions Taken:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#org79c0394">3.2.1. Discussed Consensus Process version 2:</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#org3274b35">3.3. Actions to be Taken:</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#orgc514cb8">4. Course of the Meeting:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#orgf64efcf">4.1. Opening:</a></li>
<li><a href="#org411652b">4.2. Minutes:</a></li>
<li><a href="#org1ca9cf5">4.3. Setting the Agenda:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#orgab80a18">4.3.1. DECIDE: Consultation from Patricia Allison [19]</a></li>
<li><a href="#org91ec0fd">4.3.2. DECIDE: Common House Guest Room Policy [18]</a></li>
<li><a href="#org056205a">4.3.3. Discuss: Consensus Process: "Accept as a Helpful Resource" [6]</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#org1aa5dc1">4.4. Patricia Allison:</a></li>
<li><a href="#org0c38bca">4.5. Common House Guest Room Policy:</a></li>
<li><a href="#org9ffacf3">4.6. Discussion of Consensus Process:</a></li>
<li><a href="#orgc21b079">4.7. Announcements:</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#org5516d69">4.7.1. AED: Doug</a></li>
<li><a href="#orge31089c">4.7.2. Parking: Vicki</a></li>
<li><a href="#orgc585132">4.7.3. Xmas Pot Luck: Rod</a></li>
<li><a href="#orgf7816f3">4.7.4. Filefolders: Rita</a></li>
<li><a href="#org9e9278d">4.7.5. Neighborhood News: Vicki</a></li>
<li><a href="#org501e9bc">4.7.6. Guest Rooms at Christmas: Dot</a></li>
<li><a href="#org1ba33ae">4.7.7. Winter Solstice Celebration: Essie</a></li>
<li><a href="#org5a02492">4.7.8. Punchlists: Drew</a></li>
<li><a href="#orgaf3ca3e">4.7.9. Managing Board: Diana</a></li>
<li><a href="#org0c9d15d">4.7.10. Slide Show:</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#org98e8146">5. Next Meeting:</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
Germantown Commons Community Meeting in the Dining Room of the Common House at 6:45 on Monday, 2016-12-12.


<a id="orgfe81749"></a>

# Facilitation:

Rod K managed the agenda. Erin R managed the stack. John W took notes.


<a id="org248f7c2"></a>

# In Attendance:


<a id="org44e362d"></a>

## Present:

Drew K, Barbara S, Diana S, Dot D, Suzanne G, Vicki M, Doug L, Rod K, Michele B, Essie S, Mary C, Mark B, Liz W, Mary H, Nancy C, Sharon S, Erin R, Sarah C, John W, Rita B, Mandy H, Patrick N, Sarah G

23 people representing 
21 households


<a id="org3ce7f90"></a>

# Summary:


<a id="org7d68484"></a>

## Decisions Made:


<a id="org14b681b"></a>

### Patricia Allison workshop on 27&#x2013;29 January:

We confirmed by consensus the Patricia Allison workshop for 27&#x2013;29 January 2017.


<a id="orgab74bf6"></a>

### Common House Guest Room Policy:

We adopted by consensus the Common House Guest Room Policy to take effect on 2 January 2017.


<a id="org9c64146"></a>

## Actions Taken:


<a id="org79c0394"></a>

### Discussed Consensus Process version 2:

We discussed adopting as a \`\`helpful resource'' the Consensus Process document (which is a revised version of the draft Germantown Commons Consensus Process v0.1 that was brought up for decision and red-carded at the previous Community Business Meeting.


<a id="org3274b35"></a>

## Actions to be Taken:


<a id="orgc514cb8"></a>

# Course of the Meeting:


<a id="orgf64efcf"></a>

## Opening:

Cold opening.


<a id="org411652b"></a>

## Minutes:


<a id="org1ca9cf5"></a>

## Setting the Agenda:

The following agenda items were up for consideration. We conducted a straw poll<sup><a id="fnr.1" class="footref" href="#fn.1">1</a></sup> to determine the priority/order in which we would take up the items in this meeting. Straw poll totals can be found in square brackets to the right of each item.


<a id="orgab80a18"></a>

### DECIDE: Consultation from Patricia Allison [19]


<a id="org91ec0fd"></a>

### DECIDE: Common House Guest Room Policy [18]


<a id="org056205a"></a>

### Discuss: Consensus Process: "Accept as a Helpful Resource" [6]


<a id="org1aa5dc1"></a>

## Patricia Allison:

Proposal: that Patricia Allison will come and present a workshop on consensus on January 27-29.

Long in the works, this proposal is a revision (with a change of presenter and date) of a previous proposal that had been adopted.

All households present voted green. For vote tally, see Figure \ref{fig:Patricia-Allison-workshop-vote} on page \pageref{fig:Patricia-Allison-workshop-vote}.<sup><a id="fnr.2" class="footref" href="#fn.2">2</a></sup>


<a id="org0c38bca"></a>

## Common House Guest Room Policy:

Proposal: to adopt the Common House Guest Room Policy to take effect on 2 January 2017. ([link to Common House Guest Room Policy on Basecamp 2](https://basecamp.com/2469935/projects/12402437/documents/11766485#attachments_for_comment_477061002))

All households present voted green. For vote tally, see Figure \ref{fig:Common-House-Guest-Room-Policy-2017} on page \pageref{fig:Common-House-Guest-Room-Policy-2017}.

By this point in the meeting it was still not yet 7:00pm.


<a id="org9ffacf3"></a>

## Discussion of Consensus Process:

We moved to discussion of [Germantown Commons Resource Consensus Process](https://basecamp.com/2469935/projects/12402437/messages/64508385?enlarge=262943224#attachment_262943224) (which is a revision of [Germantown Commons Consensus Process v0.1 on Basecamp 2](https://basecamp.com/2469935/projects/5716662/uploads/35200830?enlarge=261042697#attachment_261042697) which had been brought up for decision at the [2016-11-28 Community Business Meeting](https://basecamp.com/2469935/projects/12402437/uploads/35393717?enlarge=262952353#attachment_262952353) after previously having been through brainstorming and discussion and was red-carded and referred for reconciliation.

There were a number of questions concerning clarification.

Some pointed out as an advantage that we could use it until we have had our workshop in January.

Some pointed out that it seemed as though we needn't adopt this document since we will have a workshop in January.

Diana pointed out that there is a valuable resource at [ConsensusDecisionMaking.org](http://www.consensusdecisionmaking.org/)

Suzanne noted that there were some things not covered in this document, such as which decisions are to be made by committees and which require community consensus. Vicki raised and underscored the same issue.

Drew reminded us of the history of the document.

Rod noted that the issue concerning committee/community decision-making is not raised. He and, later, Barbara reminded us of the history and the plan we had developed for a task force to finish the committee charters.

Essie asked what the document is about if it isn't about making decisions.

Some other people also made important comments that I couldn't transcribe.

We seemed to conclude our discussion.

Doug asked whether we should do a straw poll so we could gauge the reception.

Sharon noted that she would prefer that the document be adopted as *policy* and that she would probably orange-card it as *helpful resource.*

Drew also was curious whether the red-cards (from last meeting) had been satisfied. Rod said \`\`yes'' and Diana said \`\`yes'' as long as we regard it as a \`\`helpful resource.''

Essie said she didn't understand the difference between adopting it as *policy* and accepting it as a *helpful resource.*

Erin clarified that designating it a *helpful resource* rather than a *policy* is that we are saying we think it has valuable ideas that we want to consider and try out but without making it a governing document. [is this what Erin said?]


<a id="orgc21b079"></a>

## Announcements:

As it turned out, many members wanted to make announcements:


<a id="org5516d69"></a>

### AED: Doug

The training for AED, etc. will be moved to January. Doug will send out a surveymonkey.com poll to clarify our needs.


<a id="orge31089c"></a>

### Parking: Vicki

Cars need to be moved by 7:30am tomorrow. There were many details about where to park. But by the time you read these minutes, this will be *old news.* 


<a id="orgc585132"></a>

### Xmas Pot Luck: Rod

3M is exploring the possibility of a Pot-luck meal on Christmas day at 1:00pm. Rod suggested that we discuss the question. A long (considering this was only supposed to be an announcement) and rather confusing (to this scribe) discussion ensued. The resolution seems to be that Rod is organizing a Pot Luck Dinner on Christmas Day at 1:00pm-ish for all who are interested.


<a id="orgf7816f3"></a>

### Filefolders: Rita

Rita asked for pendaflex file folders.


<a id="org9e9278d"></a>

### Neighborhood News: Vicki

Vicki had news about upcoming developments in the neighborhood.


<a id="org501e9bc"></a>

### Guest Rooms at Christmas: Dot

Dot repeated the announcement she has put on Basecamp.


<a id="org1ba33ae"></a>

### Winter Solstice Celebration: Essie

Essie let us know about the plans.


<a id="org5a02492"></a>

### Punchlists: Drew

Give Essie the punchlists (including if you don't have any remaining items).


<a id="orgaf3ca3e"></a>

### Managing Board: Diana

Diana said she would like to step down from the Managing Board and asked that someone fill in.


<a id="org0c9d15d"></a>

### Slide Show:

Slide show of the history of Germantown Commons (assembled by Sarah C with help from others) will be shown at the next meeting and *now.*


<a id="org98e8146"></a>

# Next Meeting:

The next scheduled Community Meeting is Sunday, 8 January, at 5:00pm.

Check the Basecamp calendar for Community Meeting proposed agenda and date.


# Footnotes

<sup><a id="fn.1" href="#fnr.1">1</a></sup> Straw polls are unofficial polls used to focus the flow of the meeting and permit each member present to vote, in contrast to official decisions which permit only one vote per household.

<sup><a id="fn.2" href="#fnr.2">2</a></sup> Many thanks to Sharon S for her help with the vote tallies.
